- [Instructor] Hi and welcome back.
In this video we're going
to look at a student class.
Which is then going to be used
over the next few videos as well.
Classes are always defined in the same way
using class and then the class name.
And they always, really,
should have an init method.
The init method takes in self,
which is the object that we are creating,
and also any number of
arguments after that.
And then, that's gonna be name and school.
Self dot name is gonna be name.
Self dot school is gonna be school.
And also self dot marks
is gonna be an empty list.
So this is my student class.
When I create a student like Anna,
they're gonna be created in the format
of Anna MIT for example.
So this creates an object
which has self dot name,
self dot school, and self dot marks.
And then self dot name
is assigned to be Anna.
Self dot school is assigned to be school.
Self dot marks is assigned
to be an empty list.
Okay.
And then we can do things
like Anna dot marks dot
append 56, for example.
Print Anna dot marks.
And then I'm gonna comment
this other print statement out
just to make things a bit easier.
When I run this,
you would surely expect a list
with the value 56 in it,
but you get an error
because I made a typo.
Let's try that again.
And there we go.
You get the value 56 out,
and that's it.
We, really that's all we did.
We created a sort of data store
with the three properties.
Two of them will be Anna and MIT.
And the other one was an empty list,
and then we appended an item to it.
We can extend the student class
by allowing it to do something
in the same way that the lottery player
could calculate a total.
Maybe something more
interesting for a student
is to be able to calculate an average.
And I think that you
can do that yourselves.
You can pause the video
and implement the average
function yourselves.
Just follow the example
of the lottery player
to calculate an average.
Hopefully you managed.
The way I would do it
is average with self,
and then it would return
the sum of the marks
divided by the length of the marks.
We've seen this before.
How we could do this,
and then if we have more marks,
then we can do something
like Anna dot average.
So now that we've got two marks,
we can add them together.
Divide it by two because that's
the length of self dot marks
and then we're gonna
print that out, right?
Let's have a wee look.
What do you think's gonna happen
when we run this code?
Have any of you spotted
the, really two mistakes,
that are there?
And if you haven't spotted them,
I would recommend pause the video now
and try to spot them.
The two errors are very similar.
Let's press play and then
see if you can figure it out.
I'm sure you can.
We get a traceback as usual,
and then we get two things printed out.
The first one is when we run
the method Anna dot average,
and the other one is exactly
which line caused the error,
which was line 29.
And it says name error
because the name marks is not defined.
If the name marks is not defined,
why could that be?
Maybe it should be self dot marks.
In the same way that here
it was self dot numbers.
And you would be right.
Marks isn't a thing
because the marks are not
associated with nothing.
They're associated with the object,
and the object is self.
So it should always be self dot marks.
Now we can run this again,
and we get 63.5, which is the average.
Okay, so that was that for this video.
Just another example of
object-oriented programming.
And remember that objects
are just stores of data,
such as the name and the school,
but also potentially some
methods, some actions,
some things they can do.
And when you combine those two together,
that's an object.
It's just a construct
used to make things easier
rather than using a
dictionary for everything.
So without further ado,
I'll see you in the next video.
We're gonna be looking
at some more advanced
object-oriented stuff.
I'll see you there.